{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 Text\par
\par
Reverse a String \endash  Enter a string and the program will reverse it and print it out.\par
\par
Pig Latin \endash  Pig Latin is a game of alterations played on the English language game. To create the Pig Latin form of an English word the initial consonant sound is transposed to the end of the word and an ay is affixed (Ex.: "banana" would yield anana-bay). Read Wikipedia for more information on rules.\par
\par
Count Vowels \endash  Enter a string and the program counts the number of vowels in the text. For added complexity have it report a sum of each vowel found.\par
\par
Check if Palindrome \endash  Checks if the string entered by the user is a palindrome. That is that it reads the same forwards as backwards like \ldblquote racecar\rdblquote\par
\par
Count Words in a String \endash  Counts the number of individual words in a string. For added complexity read these strings in from a text file and generate a summary.\par
\par
Text Editor \endash  Notepad style application that can open, edit, and save text documents. Add syntax highlighting and other features.\par
\par
RSS Feed Creator \endash  A program which can read in text from other sources and put it in RSS or Atom news format for syndication.\par
\par
Post it Notes Program \endash  A program where you can add text reminders and post them. You can have the program also add popup reminders.\par
\par
Quote Tracker (market symbols etc) \endash  A program which can go out and check the current value of stocks for a list of symbols entered by the user. The user can set how often the stocks are checked and the program can show green up and red down arrows to show which direction the stock value has moved.\par
\par
Guestbook / Journal \endash  A simple application that allows people to add comments or write journal entries. It can allow comments or not and timestamps for all entries. Could also be made into a shout box.\par
\par
News Ticker and Game Scores \endash  A program which sits on your desktop and aggregates news and game scores from various sources on the net. It then scrolls them across the screen on regular intervals.\par
\par
Fortune Teller (Horoscope) \endash  A program that checks your horoscope on various astrology sites and puts them together for you each day.\par
\par
Vigenere / Vernam / Ceasar Ciphers \endash  Functions for encrypting and decrypting data messages. Then send them to a friend.\par
\par
Random Gift Suggestions \endash  Enter various gifts for certain people when you think of them. When its time to give them a gift (xmas, birthday, anniversary) it will randomly pick one and perhaps places you can get it.\par
\par
Text to HTML Generator \endash  Converts text files into web HTML files and stylizes them. Great for making online documentation of standard text documentation.\par
\par
CD Key Generator \endash  Generates a unique key for your applications to use based on some arbitrary algorithm that you can specify. Great for software developers looking to make shareware that can be activated.\par
\par
Regex Query Tool \endash  A tool that allows the user to enter a text string and then in a separate control enter a regex pattern. It will run the regular expression against the source text and return any matches or flag errors in the regular expression.\par
\par
More in the book...\par
\par
\par
Networking\par
\par
FTP Program \endash  A file transfer program which can transfer files back and forth from a remote web sever.\par
\par
Get Atomic Time from Internet Clock \endash  This program will get the true atomic time from an atomic time clock on the Internet. There are various clocks across the world. Do a search for a list of them.\par
\par
Chat Application (IRC or MSN Style) \endash  Create a chat application that can create simple chat rooms like on Internet Relay Chat (IRC) or a more direct chatting style like MSN. For added complexity, create your own protocol to facilitate this chatting.\par
\par
Fetch Current Weather \endash  Get the current weather for a given zip/postal code. \par
\par
P2P File Sharing App \endash  Create a program like LimeWire, FrostWire, Bearshare, or a torrent style application.\par
\par
Port Scanner \endash  Enter an IP address and a port range where the program will then attempt to find open ports on the given computer by connecting to each of them. On any successful connections mark the port as open.\par
\par
Mail Checker (POP3 / IMAP) \endash  The user enters various account information include web server and IP, protocol type (POP3 or IMAP) and the application will check for email on several accounts at a given interval.\par
\par
Packet Sniffer \endash  A utility program that will read packets coming in and out of the machine along with related information like destination and payload size.\par
\par
Country from IP Lookup \endash  Enter an IP address and find the country that IP is registered in.\par
\par
Whois Search Tool \endash  Enter an IP or host address and have it look it up through whois and return the results to you.\par
\par
Zip / Postal Code Lookup \endash  Enter a zip or postal code and have it return which city/cities that are in that zip code.\par
\par
Remote Login \endash  Create a remote desktop style application which can see and control the remote computer (given you have permissions). It may require the use of your own private network and a second computer to test with.\par
\par
Site Checker with Time Scheduling \endash  An application that attempts to connect to a website or server every so many minutes or a given time and check if it is up. If it is down, it will notify you by email or by posting a notice on screen.\par
\par
Small Web Server \endash  A simple web server that can serve HTML files that contain Javascript and other forms of non-code executing code. Added complexity would be to try and implement streaming video, create a server-side language, or serve up other stream types.\par
\par
Web Bot \endash  An automated program which carries out tasks on the web including checking websites, page scraping, and summarization of data or web posting.\par
\par
More in the book...\par
\par
\par
Classes\par
\par
Product Inventory Project \endash  Create an application which manages an inventory of products. Create a product class which has a price, id, and quantity on hand. Then create an inventory class which keeps track of various products and can sum up the inventory value.\par
\par
Movie Store \endash  Manage video rentals and controls when videos are checked out, due to return, overdue fees and for added complexity create a summary of those accounts which are overdue for contact.\par
\par
Airline / Hotel Reservation System \endash  Create a reservation system which books airline seats or hotel rooms. It charges various rates for particular sections of the plane or hotel. Example, first class is going to cost more than coach. Hotel rooms have penthouse suites which cost more. Keep track of when rooms will be available and can be scheduled.\par
\par
Student Grade Book Application \endash  Keep track of students (with a student class that has their name, average, and scores) in a class and their grades. Assign their scores on tests and assignments to the students and figure out their average and grade for the class. For added complexity put the students on a bell curve.\par
\par
Bank Account Manager - Create a class called \ldblquote Account\rdblquote  which will be an abstract class for three other classes called \ldblquote CheckingAccount\rdblquote , \ldblquote SavingsAccount\rdblquote  and \ldblquote BusinessAccount\rdblquote . Manage credits and debits from these accounts through an ATM style program.\par
\par
Library Catalog \endash  Create a book class with a title, page count, ISBN and whether or not it is checked out or not. Manage a collection of various books and allow the user to check out books or return books. For added complexity generate a report of those books overdue and any fees. Also allow users to put books on reserve.\par
\par
More in the book...\par
\par
\par
Threading\par
\par
Create A Progress Bar for Downloads \endash  Create a progress bar for applications that can keep track of a download in progress. The progress bar will be on a separate thread and will communicate with the main thread using delegates.\par
\par
Download Manager \endash  Allow your program to download various files and each one is downloading in the background on a separate thread. The main thread will keep track of the other thread\rquote s progress and notify the user when downloads are completed.\par
\par
Chat Application (remoting style) \endash  Create a chat application which allows you to connect directly to another computer by their IP through the use of remoting and allow your \ldblquote server\rdblquote  application handle multiple incoming connections.\par
\par
Bulk Thumbnail Creator \endash  Picture processing can take a bit of time for some transformations. Especially if the image is large. Create an image program which can take hundreds of images and converts them to a specified size in the background thread while you do other things. For added complexity, have one thread handling re-sizing, have another bulk renaming of thumbnails etc.\par
\par
More in the book...\par
\par
\par
Web\par
\par
WYSIWG (What you see is what you get) Editor \endash  Create an editor online which allows people to move around elements, create tables, write text, set colors etc for web pages without having to know HTML. Think Dreamweaver or FrontPage but for online sites. If you need an example check out the DIC page used to create a post.\par
\par
Web Browser with Tabs \endash  Create a small web browser that allows you to navigate the web and contains tabs which can be used to navigate to multiple web pages at once. For simplicity don\rquote t worry about executing Javascript or other client side code.\par
\par
Page Scraper \endash  Create an application which connects to a site and pulls out all links, or images, and saves them to a list. For added complexity, organize the indexed content and don\rquote t allow duplicates. Have it put the results into an easily searchable index file.\par
\par
File Downloader \endash  An application which can download various objects on a page including video streams or all files on a page. Great for pages with a lot of download links.\par
\par
Telnet Application \endash  Create an application which can telnet into servers across the internet and run basic commands. \par
\par
Online White Board \endash  Create an application which allows you and friends to collaborate on a white board online. Draw pictures, write notes and use various colors to flesh out ideas for projects. For added complexity try building in picture tubes.\par
\par
Bandwidth Monitor \endash  A small utility program that tracks how much data you have uploaded and downloaded from the net during the course of your current online session. See if you can find out what periods of the day you use more and less and generate a report or graph that shows it.\par
\par
Bookmark Collector and Sorter \endash  An application that you can put online for people to upload bookmarks to, have it sort them, remove duplicates and export the entire list as a Firefox/IE/Safari bookmark file. For added complexity see if you can group the bookmark items into various folders.\par
\par
Password Safe \endash  A program which keeps track of passwords for sites or applications and encrypts them with a key so that no one can read them.\par
\par
Media Player Widget for iGoogle \endash  Create an iGoogle gadget which can play various song lists from your computer as well as share one song daily. Perhaps let people look up which songs you have listened to lately.\par
\par
Text Based Game Like Utopia \endash  Create a simple text based RPG like Utopia where you can create a civilization, gather resources, forge alliances, cast spells and more on a turn based system. See if you can dominate the kingdom.\par
\par
Scheduled Auto Login and Action \endash  Make an application which logs into a given site on a schedule and invokes a certain action and then logs out. This can be useful for checking web mail, posting regular content, or getting info for other applications and saving it to your computer.\par
\par
E-Card Generator \endash  Make a site that allows people to generate their own little e-cards and send them to other people. Can use flash or not. Use a picture library and perhaps insightful mottos or quotes.\par
\par
Content Management System \endash  Create a content management system (CMS) like Joomla, Drupal, PHP Nuke etc. Start small and allow for the addition of modules/addons later.\par
\par
Template Maker \endash  Make a site or application which allows the user to enter in various color codes, elements, dimensions and constructs a template file for a particular application like PHPBB, Invision Board, MySpace, Bebo, etc.\par
\par
CAPTCHA Maker \endash  Ever see those images with letters a numbers when you signup for a service and then asks you to enter what you see? It keeps web bots from automatically signing up and spamming. Try creating one yourself for online forms. If you use PHP, take a look at the image functions of GD.\par
\par
More in the book...\par
\par
\par
Files\par
\par
Quiz Maker \endash  Make an application which takes various questions form a file, picked randomly, and puts together a quiz for students. Each quiz can be different and then reads a key to grade the quizzes.\par
\par
Quick Launcher \endash  A utility program that allows the user to assign various programs to icons on a toolbar. Then by clicking the buttons they can quickly launch the programs with parameters etc. Much like Windows quick launch.\par
\par
File Explorer \endash  Create your own windows explorer program but with added features, better searching, new icons and other views.\par
\par
Sort File Records Utility \endash  Reads a file of records, sorts them, and then writes them back to the file. Allow the user to choose various sort style and sorting based on a particular field.\par
\par
Add Transactions In File and Find Averages \endash  Read in a file of financial transactions, group them into accounts, add up fields or find averages or apply credits and debits to each account.\par
\par
Create Zip File Maker \endash  The user enters various files from different directories and maybe even another computer on the network and the program transfers them and zips them up into a zip file. For added complexity, apply actual compression to the files.\par
\par
PDF Generator \endash  An application which can read in a text file, html file or some other file and generates a PDF file out of it. Great for a web based service where the user uploads the file and the program returns a PDF of the file.\par
\par
Bulk Renamer and Organizer \endash  This program will take a series of files and renames them with a specific filename filter entered by the user. For instance if the user enters myimage###.jpg it will rename all files with a \ldblquote minimum\rdblquote  of three numbers like \ldblquote myimage001.jpg\rdblquote , \ldblquote myimage145.jpg\rdblquote  or even \ldblquote myimage1987.jpg\rdblquote  since 1987 has at least three numbers.\par
\par
Mp3 Tagger \endash  Modify and add ID3v1 tags to MP3 files. See if you can also add in the album art into the MP3 file\rquote s header as well as other ID3v2 tags.\par
\par
Log File Maker \endash  Make an application which logs various statistics in response to given events. This can be something that logs what an application does, what the system is doing, when something like a file changes etc.\par
\par
Excel Spreadsheet Exporter \endash  Create an online application which can read in a file and create an Excel Spreadsheet to export back. This can be through CVS or other file formats. For added complexity, see if you can create formula fields as well.\par
\par
RPG Character Stat Creator \endash  Make a program which will randomly create a character\rquote s stats based on several rules set forth by the user. Have it generate a class, gender, strength/magic/dexterity points, and extra abilities or trades. Have it save it to a file which can then be printed out by a dungeon master.\par
\par
Image Map Generator \endash  Image maps are those images on the web that have multiple hover points that link to different pages. Such images may include maps or splash pages. See if you can make one where the user specifies an image, clicks hotspots in the image and specify links. It will then generate the HTML code to a file that the user can then copy and paste into their website to make the image map.\par
\par
File Copy Utility \endash  Create a utility that can do bulk file copying and backups of other files.\par
\par
Code Snippet Manager \endash  Another utility program that allows coders to put in functions, classes or other tidbits to save for use later. Organized by the type of snippet or language the coder can quickly look up code. For extra practice try adding syntax highlighting based on the language.\par
\par
Versioning Manager \endash  Create your own versioning system for code files. Users are forced to check out items and lock items during reading and writing so that a group of programmers are not accidentally overwriting code files on one another.\par
\par
More in the book...\par
\par
\par
Databases\par
\par
SQL Query Analyzer \endash  A utility application which a user can enter a query and have it run against a local database and look for ways to make it more efficient.\par
\par
Remote SQL Tool \endash  A utility that can execute queries on remote servers from your local computer across the Internet. It should take in a remote host, user name and password, run the query and return the results.\par
\par
Baseball / Other Card Collector \endash  Create an online application for keeping track of a collection of cards. Let the user enter all cards in a set, check off which ones they have, which ones they need and generate lists of cards they are looking for. For extra complexity, have it sum up sets and generate reports on how close they are of completing sets or the current value of a set.\par
\par
Report Generator \endash  Create a utility that generates a report based on some tables in a database. Generates a sales reports based on the order/order details tables or sums up the days current database activity.\par
\par
Database Backup Script Maker \endash  A program which reads a database\rquote s objects, relationships, records and stored procedures and creates a .sql file which can then be imported into another database or kept as a backup file to rebuild the database with.\par
\par
Event Scheduler and Calendar \endash  Make an application which allows the user to enter a date and time of an event, event notes and then schedule those events on a calendar. The user can then browse the calendar or search the calendar for specific events. For added complexity, allow the application to create reoccurrence events that reoccur every day, week, month, year etc.\par
\par
Budget Tracker \endash  Write an application that keeps track of a household\rquote s budget. The user can add expenses, income, and recurring costs to find out how much they are saving or losing over a period of time. For added complexity allow the user to specify a date range and see the net flow of money in and out of the house budget for that time period.\par
\par
Address Book \endash  Keep track of various contacts, their numbers, emails and little notes about them like a Rolodex in the database. For extra complexity, allow the user to connect to a website publish their address book based on specific options the user has set.\par
\par
TV Show Tracker \endash  Got a favorite show you don\rquote t want to miss? Don\rquote t have a PVR or want to be able to find the show to then PVR it later? Make an application which can search various online TV Guide sites, locate the shows/times/channels and add them to a database application. The database/website then can send you email reminders that a show is about to start and which channel it will be on.\par
\par
Travel Planner System \endash  Make a system that allows users to put together their own little travel itinerary and keep track of the airline / hotel arrangements, points of interest, budget and schedule. \par
\par
Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) Creator \endash  A program that allows the user to put together ERD diagram and save it or have it generate some basic SQL syntax to give them a jump start.\par
\par
Database Translation (MySQL <-> SQL Server) \endash  A simple utility that reads in from one database and constructs SQL compliant with another database. Then saves that to another database. One popular transition would be to and from MySQL server for databases like SQL Server and Oracle.\par
\par
Web Board (Forum) \endash  Create a forum for you and your buddies to post, administer and share thoughts and ideas.\par
\par
More in the book...\par
\par
\par
Graphics and Multimedia\par
\par
Slide Show \endash  Make an application that shows various pictures in a slide show format. For extra complexity try adding various effects like fade in/out, star wipe and window blinds transitions.\par
\par
Mind Mapper \endash  Allow the user to put down ideas and quickly brainstorm how they are related into a mind map. The goal here is speed so let the user quickly write in an idea and drag it around in a visual map to show relationships.\par
\par
Import Picture and Save as Grayscale \endash  A utility that sucks the color right out of an image and saves it. You could add more including adjusting contrast, colorizing and more for added complexity.\par
\par
Stream Video from Online \endash  Try to create your own online streaming video player.\par
\par
Mp3 Player (and Other Formats) \endash  A simple program for playing your favorite music files. For extra complexity see if you can add in playlists and an equalizer.\par
\par
Bulk Picture Manipulator \endash  This program will take in a directory of pictures and apply a certain effect to them whether it be reducing color count, changing its format, or alter file attributes. For something extra try to see if you can also create a system to tag them. \par
\par
CD Burning App \endash  Create a utility that simply burns data to a CD.\par
\par
YouTube Downloader \endash  A program which can download videos to your hard drive from youtube.com. Save the files in various formats including FLV and AVI.\par
\par
Wallpaper Manager \endash  Make a program which keeps track of your favorite wallpapers, changes them regularly and maybe even re-sizes them for your resolution (aka tiles one and stretches another)\par
\par
Screen Capture Program \endash  Make a utility that will simply capture a frame from your web cam. For added complexity see if you can also build in emailing functionality.\par
\par
Image Browser \endash  This application is used to view various image files on your computer from PNG, GIF, JPG to BMP, TIFF etc.\par
\par
Traffic Light Application \endash  See if you can make your own street light application and then put it into an intersection scenario. Don\rquote t let any cars run the lights and crash into one another!\par
\par
MP3 to Wav Converter \endash  MP3 is essentially compressed wav format. See if you can translate it back into wav so that some other sound editing programs can work with the wav file itself. Keep in mind that 1 MB of MP3 is relative 10MB wav.\par
\par
Signature Maker \endash  Ever seen those web board posts where someone has a generated signature made up? See if you can make a program that allows the user to specify a background, text, colors and alignment to make their own signatures or userbars.\par
\par
Screen Saver \endash  Make a screensaver program that will run while your computer sits idle. To make a simple one use some standard pictures and then for added complexity try a 3D object that spins around the screen and bounces off the sides.\par
\par
Watermarking Application \endash  Have some pictures you want copyright protected? Add your own logo or text lightly across the background so that no one can simply steal your graphics off your site. Make a program that will add this watermark to the picture.\par
\par
Turtle Graphics \endash  This is a common project where you create a floor of 20 x 20 squares. Using various commands you tell a turtle to draw a line on the floor. You have move forward, left or right, lift or drop pen etc. For added complexity, allow the program to read in the list of commands from a file. Do a search online for \ldblquote Turtle Graphics\rdblquote  for more information.\par
\par
More in the book...\par
\par
\par
Games\par
\par
Battleship \endash  Create two game boards and let each player place a number of war ships. Each player can\rquote t see the other person\rquote s board. They then take turns firing at one another by guessing one of the board squares. If the square they guess contains part of a ship, it is a hit. Otherwise it is a miss. They sink a ship when all squares containing that particular ship have been uncovered. The player wins when all their opponents\rquote  ships have been sunk.\par
\par
Chess and Checkers \endash  Simply put a game of chess or checkers. Try to make it playable online and if you can use a graphical user interface that can also undo or redo a step as well as keep a history of moves for replay.\par
\par
Hangman \endash  Randomly select a word from a file, have the user guess characters in the word. For each character they guess that is not in the word, have it draw another part of a man hanging in a noose. If the picture is completed before they guess all the characters, they lose.\par
\par
Crossword Puzzle \endash  Create a crossword puzzle which links words together on common letters. Provide a list of clues for each word and let the user enter fill in the words until the entire crossword is filled in.\par
\par
Frogger \endash  Get your frog across the river and lanes of traffic by either jumping on logs and lily pads rushing by at different speeds or avoid the automobiles which are also moving at various speeds. Based on the old arcade game..\par
}
 